
NAME
chmod - Change file permissions based on an octal representation.

SYNOPSIS
    ./chmod <octal-permissions> <file>

DESCRIPTION
    The chmod program is used to change the permissions of a file by specifying them in octal format. This tool allows users to modify a file’s read, write, and execute permissions for the owner, group, and others.

OPTIONS
    <octal-permissions>
        A string that represents the file permissions in octal format (e.g., 755, 644). The octal value is converted internally using strtol() to be applied as the new permissions.
    
    <file>
        The name of the file for which the permissions should be changed.

FUNCTIONALITY
    1. Argument validation:
        The program expects exactly two arguments. If the user provides an incorrect number of arguments, the program will print a usage message and exit with an error.
    
    2. Permission conversion:
        The octal permissions (first argument) are converted from a string to an octal number using the strtol() function with a base of 8.
    
    3. Permission change:
        The program uses the chmod() system call to change the permissions of the file specified by the second argument.
    
    4. Success message:
        If the permission change is successful, the program will print a message confirming the new permissions.

    5. Error handling:
        If the chmod() call fails, the program will display an appropriate error message using perror().

EXAMPLES
    chmod 755 myfile.txt
        This example changes the permissions of myfile.txt to rwxr-xr-x:
        - Owner: Read, write, and execute (7)
        - Group: Read and execute (5)
        - Others: Read and execute (5)

ERROR HANDLING
    - Incorrect argument count:
        If fewer than or more than two arguments are provided, the program will print the following usage message and exit:
        Usage: ./chmod <octal-permissions> <file>
    
    - chmod() system call failure:
        If the chmod() function fails (e.g., file not found or insufficient permissions), an error message will be printed using perror() to indicate the cause of the failure.

EXIT STATUS
    0: Success. The file's permissions were changed.
    1: Failure. An error occurred (invalid arguments, system call failure, etc.).

SEE ALSO
    chmod(1) - Manual page for the shell command chmod used in Unix-like systems.
    chmod(2) - Manual page for the system call chmod() used in C programs to change file permissions.


